

Tale






Excellencies.
Ladies and gentlemen.
We have two paths in front of us. The first one leads to a future destroyed by climate change. Extreme weather events. Rising sea levels. Wildfires and heatwaves. That is where we are headed right now.
The other path leads to a green, sustainable future. Clean energy. Clean air. Green jobs. Better lives.
It is not a real choice. The green future is the only way forward. And we all need to ramp up ambitions.
Denmark will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 70 percent in 2030.
Our experience shows that green transition can go hand in hand with sustainable growth, jobs and welfare.
Of course, all countries need a fair chance. And all countries need to take responsibility.
The richest countries have to deliver on climate finance.
Therefore, Denmark aims to mobilise at least 1 percent of the promised 100 billion dollars by 2023. And 60 percent of Denmark’s climate aid will help the most vulnerable nations adapt to climate change.
Now, I will speak on behalf of the Faroe Islands and Greenland.
As a self-governing country in the Kingdom of Denmark, the Faroe Islands have their own climate policy.
The Government is now preparing their climate contribution according to the Paris Agreement. This includes ambitious carbon reduction goals set by the national parliament early next year.
The green transition of the Faroe Islands includes a conversion to 100 percent renewable electric production by 2030.
Greenland is a self-governing Arctic country of the Kingdom of Denmark.
In Greenland, as you all know, dramatic climate changes are already visible. This affects the livelihood and biodiversity in Greenland.
Greenland has taken an important step to halt all new oil and gas exploration licenses. In a few years, 90 percent of electricity produced in Greenland will be sustainable.
The Prime Minister of Greenland has informed me, on the Government’s decision to enter the Paris Agreement.  
Ladies and gentlemen. Now is the time to choose our future.
A brighter, greener future for the generations to come. Thank you.





