

Tale






Dear colleagues.
To give everyone the opportunity to live good lives. In freedom and in dignity.
That is our most noble task.
A task that can only be achieved if we truly commit ourselves to work together.
Right now, we see brutal and tragic wars around the world. In Africa. In Middle East and in Europe.
And as world community we are faced with human disasters. Poverty. Hunger. Climate Change
If we do nothing it will only get worse.
The decisions we make today will define the future for generations to come.
***
This is why the ‘Pact for the Future’ is such an important step forward for the United Nations.
Thank you, Namibia and Germany for your lead for the Pact.
And for the commitment of Secretary General Guterres.
It has not always been easy.
But it has been a great example of successful collaboration.
Negotiations have focused on concrete and action-oriented results.
With the necessary willingness to find workable compromises.
It is truly significant that we have been able to adopt the Pact by consensus.
***
We need a global system that is far more equal. That promotes solidarity. And fair representation.
For a future with more equality.
Where we ensure fair representation – especially of the African countries.
We have discussed it for decades. Now is the time to make it happen.
We must also face a truth that can be a bit difficult for all of us.
That our current international financial system is outdated.
Right now, it cannot respond to the challenges we face.
Old patterns and power structures stand in the way of the necessary progress.
We have to reform it.
To make it fair. To make it just. And more responsive.
So, we will be able – together – to mobilize finance at the scale we need to. When we need to.
And invest in sustainable development. Education for all kids. Health for all human beings.
And not least climate solutions.
Denmark already gives a good contribution to the
International Development Association.
And I am proud today to announce, that we intend to increase it with 40 percent.
***
Next year, Denmark will join the UN Security Council.
We know that is it a huge responsibility.
We will do our very best to ensure implementation of the Pact.
And we look forward to work with the other members.
To promote – hopefully – a constructive cooperation.
And push for a more accountable, effective and representative Security Council.
***
Dear colleagues,
I think we stand at a cross road.
It is what we do now that really matters now.
We need to set a better course for our world. To make it more fair and to make it more just.
So all people – all over the world - have the opportunity to live good lives.
In freedom and in dignity.
Thank you.





